---
title: "hello world"
date: 2021-11-04T19:31:07+02:00
---

# distopía?

2021 is still not the "Great-Revival-of-personal-websites" year.

A few time after Google Reader and RSS feeds disappearance (or was it before?),
the distributed constellation of websites, servers, private and public networks
we called Internet (this very one we've been building with care and love for
the last decades), got sick. It has been replaced by CPU intensive JavaScript
on social medias and advertising networks, empowered by a brainless hype for
the new cool blinking feature, a lack of awareness on ethics, data sovereignty,
data preservation and censorship. The inaccessibility of some ethical or
sustainable alternatives is an aggravating factor. We host everything on the
same servers in the same companies. We have major Internet outages happening
every months (DNS, BGP failures, DDoS attacks, human errors...) and these
unavoidable outages have more and more impact on end users each time, touch an
increasing number of people each time. Last month, Facebook, Instagram and
WhatsApp went down at the same time for a few hours, due to a benign router
incident. Same goes for the activity of small companies that build services on
top of these platforms. Some people complained, some made fun about it, we all
agreed there was a problem, but we don't know how to cure the disease and... You
see? We already forgot about it.

The decentralized dream has faded, or at least people have forgotten about it.
Public Internet was about hosting data everywhere and building projects with
people from all around the world. A free world without borders.  It was about
empowering people and giving them a voice, not about diluting their voice in
overstimulation of medias and ads. We wanted things that last. We wanted
people to *find* our content.

We can talk a lot about how we failed, about the funding of open source
projects, the remuneration of content creators, journalists, experts, open
source developers. About education, international laws and regulations on data,
advertising, copyright. We failed a lot back then and we didn't even realize
it. "Web 2.0" we said.

If you *feel* that thing I'm talking about, I guess you're old. No offence! I
am too, kind of. At least, you know where we come from. We saw a lot of things
improve too, this is undeniable. But this disease I'm talking about is special,
because we're *seeing* the ship is sinking, yet we don't know how to prevent
it. As most grown ups we knew when we were younger, we could say "I am getting
old and tired". "I don't think it can change". "This is too late". "This is not
so bad". We could become resigned about politics too...

Hopefully, as a society, I think we discovered something during past decades.
Environmental cause, work conditions, GDPR, #metoo, #blacklivematers, fights
against discrimination towards women, LGBTQIA+,... All of these very important
changes that happened thanks to the hard work of (small) groups of people (and
thanks to the fresh clear mind of the youth) happened for a reason. Our
generation learnt something on it's own that our parents didn't really tell us,
because it was reserved to an elite, well educated, engaged population before
Internet. This thing is actually quite simple: The power of the community is
strong. If something is wrong and we have a voice / words to expose it in a
calm, open minded place, as factual as possible, we (as a community) can gather
a group of people to explore alternatives. As a community, we have the time and
the tools to make it better for the others. We can't find the solution for
everything on our own, one's solution may not be the good one for the others.
But if we have ideas, we can expose them for others to ear. Maybe they can work
on it. Talking about the problems, sharing, documenting them *can* help. Trying
to bypass the problems and building or consolidate alternatives is *still*
relevant and interesting for the community. We are not alone, a lot of people
are trying to *fix* things. If we know how to do something, how to learn, then
I think we should help, this is the least we can do. This sinking Internet is
the place, the tool, the *agora*, the city, the knowledge, the school. Internet
is political. And right now, I'm pretty sure we need fix it.

**This is not a call for a revolution.** I can hear you already and you're
probably right: comparing the Web 2.0's decline to the terrible problems our
society is trying to mitigate may be a bit too much. But I just wanted to tell
you this: let's not get crabby about how better things were in the past like
previous generations. We have tools now. Let's just talk about the problems,
and try to fix what's wrong, together. This is Internet, and now we have it in
our life, *together we can make things better* ...starting with Internet itself.

So let's build, share, take our independance from the Big Five, let's have fun
as we did when the Internet was born, but this knowing that we have a community
of people that can prevent us from redoing the same mistakes again an againt!

# what year is this?

I'm super enthusiastic to be back online. I have been missing a place like this
for a while. The idea is to store knowledge and share my experimentations on
audiovisual content, music, computers and electronics. It can also be a great
opportunity to share the work of some talented people I love and admire. At
some points you may find articles like the one you just read (did you even
read it?). I'm clearly not a writer, just another dreamer that sometimes
struggle to put ideas with the right words, so please bear with me while I
pretend it's still 2010 and people actually read personal websites :D

I'm building this place with my bare hands, the [hugo static website generator
](https://gohugo.io/) and CSS. If you read the previous paragraphs, you'll get
why I'm self-inflicting this. Making an independent website has never be so
simple and yet painful. This is mainly due to the high number of technologies
you need to master before being able to share actual content on an 100%
customizable page, with accessibility, sustainability and efficiency in mind.
Independence is another key motivation that brought me to build things like
this. I learnt CSS and HTML in 2006 and stopped practicing afterwards. I want
to be in control of my data and to be able to protect it by my own means on the
long run. I spent the last 15 years working on computers, servers, networks,
studying and building highly resilient and industrialized infrastructure. And
yet here I am, struggling more than ever to make my own website. So let's
accept this: I don't know sh*t about websites anymore. But hey, I'm trying :D

(Wow, CSS! Amazing evolutions! Flexbox really? Crazy! Did you know how we had
to do this back then?)

Thanks for your indulgence, I hope you'll enjoy this place though!

PS: I don't care about your data. I won't track it and will do my best not
sending it to other companies. I bake cookies some times, but only when in a
kitchen.
